# Concepts Explained
Welcome to concepts explained!! In this repository, I'll be covering machine learning technology and architectures I come across in the development of personal projects. There's a common train of thought that if you can't explain a specialized concept to an individual outside your specialized field, you don't truly understand said concept. This space offers me an opportunity to explain all kinds of specialized machine learning concepts to those outside of machine learning. Every folder will have two Markdown (.md) files relevant to that folder's core concept: one intended for those with a background in machine learning and one intended to be understood by anyone and everyone without a machine learning background. The latter is intended to convey as much information as the former, but might necessarily abstract some details to explain the technology while remaining digestible. No matter what your background, I hope this repository can serve as resource in helping understand these ideas.

Every Markdown file corresponding to concept X intended for those with a background in machine learning will be titled X_ML.md. Alternatively, explanation files corresponding to the same idea written for those without a background in machine learning will be titled X.md. As these are intended for readers from all backgrounds, I'll try to refrain from any jargon, but if you find yourself wondering about specific terminology, I've created the terminology.md file in the home directory. In this file, you'll find more information on the acronyms and definitions I apply throughout this repository's explanations.

To create the best performing models, you are dependent on previous models. Tim Brooks' paper, Dall-E using text conditioner, custom captioner, synthetic text generation, and consistency model theory. 

On references and citations: I've tried to cite every paper, lecture, video, or illustration that contributed to my explanation of these concepts. If I've missed any, please let me know. I'm not attempting to pass off anyone else's ideas as my own and want to ensure everyone receives their proper credit.

Enjoy!!

Quick disclaimer: this repo focuses on ML technology, and as a result, a fair assumption would be that I employ a lot of AI technology myself. That's certainly true, I remember being blown away by Whisper, Dall-E, Stable Diffusion, ChatGPT, etc. However, I won't use any of those technologies in this repo beyond where explicitly mentioned. In the Stable Diffusion explanation subdirectory, I point out images generated through Stable Diffusion. That's the limit of generative AI employed on these pages. Every word written is (unfortunately) mine, and every idea expressed is my own (realistically, it's an amalgamation of ideas expressed by people much more intelligent than I am). There's no ChatGPT or LLM employed to fill these pages. That's not an indictment on those technologies, more a guideline for my own peace of mind. I've read and re-read most of these pages multiple times (I still consistently find issues with them), and I'd much rather focus my disdain on my own writing, than blame a generative tool. All of which is to say, if you enjoy some of this writing, thank you, I appreciate that, and if you don't enjoy it, unfortunately, that's still me.
